hello_world/README.md, before:

## Introduction

This repository includes a simple tutorial for test WisBlock Starte Kit.
The objective is to learn a little about WisBlock and how it is easy to program on Arduino IDE. 

## Used Materials

[WisBlock Core RAK4631](https://store.rakwireless.com/products/rak4631-lpwan-node)

[WisBlock Base RAK5005-0](https://store.rakwireless.com/products/rak5005-o-base-board)

Or you can purchase together in:

[WisBlock Starter Kit](https://store.rakwireless.com/products/wisblock-starter-kit)

## Contents 

A little code on Arduino to make a Blinking and send a 'Hello World' through Serial Monitor

## How to use

- Choose the topic that you are interested in learning and access to the folder
- Download the folder as a zip file or clone as `$git clone https://github.com/RAKWireless/tutorials/hello_world`
- Open the code in Arduino IDE
- Install the libraries for RAKwireless showed in this tutorial (Add link to tutorial when it's ready)
- Run and Upload the code

[RAKwireless official Documentation Site](https://docs.rakwireless.com/Introduction/)

[RAKwireless Hackster Official Channel](https://www.hackster.io/rak-wireless)

Commit message:

Code for some corrections and optimization
This code adds functions to LoRa_P2P to deal with exceptions like RX errors or buffer busy. Also, a description of each code is added in the README files.

README files have been added for each project. In LoRa_P2P/Home the OnCadDone and OnRxError functions were changed to handle exceptions. Finally, the way of printing the message was changed to make it clearer and more readable.

hello_world/README.md, after:

# Getting Started with WisBlock Starter Kit - Hello Wisblock!

## Introduction

This repository includes a simple tutorial for test WisBlock Starte Kit.
The objective is to learn a little about WisBlock and how it is easy to program on Arduino IDE. 

## Used Materials

[WisBlock Core RAK4631](https://store.rakwireless.com/products/rak4631-lpwan-node)

[WisBlock Base RAK5005-0](https://store.rakwireless.com/products/rak5005-o-base-board)

Or you can purchase together in:

[WisBlock Starter Kit](https://store.rakwireless.com/products/wisblock-starter-kit)

## Contents 

A little code on Arduino to make a Blinking and send a 'Hello World' through Serial Monitor

## How to use

- Download the folder as a zip file or clone as `$git clone https://github.com/RAKWireless/tutorials/hello_world`
- Open the code in Arduino IDE
- Install the libraries for RAKwireless showed in this [tutorial](https://www.hackster.io/alveiroRakwireless/first-steps-basic-rak-module-wisblock-starter-kit-c4fec5)
- Run and Upload the code

[RAKwireless official Documentation Site](https://docs.rakwireless.com/Introduction/)

[RAKwireless Hackster Official Channel](https://www.hackster.io/rak-wireless)
