Cellular_LoRaWAN_Modbus/README.MD, before:

# LoRaWAN/Cellular Modbus Client

## Introduction

This repository includes a project replicated from the Blues Wireless' accelerator: Cellular Modbus Client. The idea is to modify this project in order to make it work with WisBlock from RAKwireless and connecting data to the cloud using LoRaWAN and celullar networks.

With this solution it is possible to have a device capable of connecting to any other device using the modbus protocol and reading or writing the registers necessary for its control or monitoring.

## Necessary Hardware 
For this project the following RAKwireless products will be necessary:

- [WisBlock Baseboard RAK19001](https://store.rakwireless.com/products/rak19001-wisblock-dual-io-base-board)
- [WisBlock Core RAK4631](https://store.rakwireless.com/products/rak4631-lpwan-node?variant=37505443987654)
- [RS485 Module 3PEAK TP8485E](https://store.rakwireless.com/products/rak5802-rs485-interface)
- [RAK Notecard Module](To be updated)

And the necessary Blues elements will be:

- [Blues Notecard](https://blues.io/products/notecard/) (Select one according your location)
- [Blues Notecarrier A, B or F](https://blues.io/products/notecarrier/) (Optional)

Additional Hardware:

- Any USB to RS485 Adapter



## Hardware Connection
Connecting the WisBlock elements is easy: just plug the core into the core slot, the RS485 module into one IO slot and the WisBlock Notecard module in the other. Don't forget to connect the antennas in the devices.

![Materials](https://i.imgur.com/xnjOtLam.jpg)

This time we will use the RAK19001 motherboard, but, [here](https://store.rakwireless.com/collections/wisblock-base) you can select another board. If you have any doubt about the Hardware configuration, you can visit the WisBlock official documentation [here](https://docs.rakwireless.com/Product-Categories/WisBlock/Quickstart/#hardware-setup). The final result that you will get is shown in the next figure:

![connection](https://i.imgur.com/Lm5qK2nm.jpg)

After that you can put this project in an enclossure and you will get a final product ready to install, like the shown in the next Figure:

![finalproduct](https://i.imgur.com/YQIksaRm.jpg)

## Firmware development 

## Some details

When working with LoRaWAN, you need to choose a LNS (either TTN, Chirpstack, etc), it will provide you credentials whether you are using OTAA or ABP connection mode, modify your code with your credentials to successfully connect to the network.

```
//OTAA keys !!!! KEYS ARE MSB !!!!
uint8_t nodeDeviceEUI[8] = {0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00};
uint8_t nodeAppEUI[8] = {0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00};
uint8_t nodeAppKey[16] = {0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00};
// ABP keys
uint32_t nodeDevAddr = 0x260116F8;
uint8_t nodeNwsKey[16] = {0x7E, 0xAC, 0xE2, 0x55, 0xB8, 0xA5, 0xE2, 0x69, 0x91, 0x51, 0x96, 0x06, 0x47, 0x56, 0x9D, 0x23};
uint8_t nodeAppsKey[16] = {0xFB, 0xAC, 0xB6, 0x47, 0xF3, 0x58, 0x45, 0xC7, 0x50, 0x7D, 0xBF, 0x16, 0x8B, 0xA8, 0xC1, 0x7C};
```

The LoRaWAN code works with events, that means you don't need to add anything in the loop function for the code to work correctly, just modify the sending time and buffer size parameters that you need to transmit in the `lorawan_code.h`.

```
/ Private definition
#define LORAWAN_APP_DATA_BUFF_SIZE 64 /**< buffer size of the data to be transmitted. */
#define LORAWAN_APP_INTERVAL 60000 /**< Defines for user timer, the application data transmission interval. 20s, value in [ms]. */
```
Finally, if you are sending data using the Notecard, you need to first send the data to the Notehub, the blues platform to work as a connection between our end device and the IoT platform. For that, you need to edit the `blues_conf.h` file and define your `PRODUCT_UID` according to your credential in your Notehub account.

```
#define PRODUCT_UID "com.company.username:projectname"
```

### Modbus Server

To test this project you will need modbus devices to use as servers (slaves), this time we will emulate them using the [Pymodbus Library](https://pypi.org/project/pymodbus/) and creating a synchronous server of which you can consult more information about it [here](https://pymodbus.readthedocs.io/en/v1.5.2.post0/source/example/synchronous_server.html), and it is the file `server.py`.

### LoRaWAN communication

The process to communicate end devices via LoRaWAN networks can be done via a public network like [Helium](https://www.helium.com/) or set up your own network using a gateway for LoRaWAN. In this case, we will configure the second option. For this process you will need:

- [A gateways for LoRaWAN](https://store.rakwireless.com/collections/wisgate-edge)
- [TTN account](https://console.cloud.thethings.network/)

The gateway needs to be configured to work in base station mode, then it will be added to TTN creating a security token, finally creating the end devices with the credentials to be replaced in code as explained. before. This process is simple and can be done in a few minutes, check our [official documentation](https://docs.rakwireless.com/Product-Categories/WisGate/RAK7268-V2/Supported-LoRa-Network-Servers/#wisgateos-2-basics-station-to-ttnv3) for the step by step process.

### Blues Communication

This process is even simpler than setting up the LoRaWAN network, just create an account on the [Notehub page](https://notehub.io/sign-in?flow=473ef4b7-c19d-4440-a5d4-c2d1bb9d25b6) and create a new project. This project will be created with a unique identifier that needs to be added to the code, as mentioned above. You will need to add a device and add your Notecard that you are working with. You can review the Blues documentation to see the [process step by step](https://docs.rakwireless.com/Product-Categories/WisGate/RAK7268-V2/Supported-LoRa-Network-Servers/#wisgateos-2-basics-station-to-ttnv3).

### Ubidots Connection

Finally, the connection to Ubidots will be made by integrating the two platforms, TTN and Notehub, with Ubidots. In this part, you need to keep in mind that you are sending data with different payloads, so Ubidtos needs to be able to recognize this format and translate it to display the data in dashboards.

You can create two devices in Ubidots or try to configure one device to receive data from different platforms. In either case, you must translate the payload so that the IoT platform can read it. To use this you will need to have a decoder function, the decoder functions examples are the `.js` files in the repo, just copy and paste on the DataCake platform.

Considering the above decoders, the process to connect Notehub and TTN with Ubidots is not complicated. You can consult the complete [Blues](https://help.ubidots.com/en/articles/4990386-learn-how-to-connect-blues-wireless-notecard-powered-app-to-ubidots) and [TTN](https://help.ubidots.com/en/articles/5096476-plugins-connect-the-things-stack-to-ubidots) tutorial on Ubidots official website.

If you need more information you can visit the next sites:


[RAKwireless official Documentation Site](https://docs.rakwireless.com/Introduction/)

[Blues Wireless site](https://dev.blues.io/)

Commit message:

Files to run and test the modbus server were added
In this commit, we added the function to the firmware to read and write the registers and we modify the server with some values to be read.

Cellular_LoRaWAN_Modbus/README.MD, after:

# LoRaWAN/Cellular Modbus Client

## Introduction

This repository includes a project replicated from the Blues Wireless' accelerator: Cellular Modbus Client. The idea is to modify this project in order to make it work with WisBlock from RAKwireless and connecting data to the cloud using LoRaWAN and celullar networks.

With this solution it is possible to have a device capable of connecting to any other device using the modbus protocol and reading or writing the registers necessary for its control or monitoring.

## Necessary Hardware 
For this project the following RAKwireless products will be necessary:

- [WisBlock Baseboard RAK19001](https://store.rakwireless.com/products/rak19001-wisblock-dual-io-base-board)
- [WisBlock Core RAK4631](https://store.rakwireless.com/products/rak4631-lpwan-node?variant=37505443987654)
- [RS485 Module 3PEAK TP8485E](https://store.rakwireless.com/products/rak5802-rs485-interface)
- [RAK Notecard Module](To be updated)

And the necessary Blues elements will be:

- [Blues Notecard](https://blues.io/products/notecard/) (Select one according your location)
- [Blues Notecarrier A, B or F](https://blues.io/products/notecarrier/) (Optional)

Additional Hardware:

- Any USB to RS485 Adapter



## Hardware Connection
Connecting the WisBlock elements is easy: just plug the core into the core slot, the RS485 module into one IO slot and the WisBlock Notecard module in the other. Don't forget to connect the antennas in the devices.

![Materials](https://i.imgur.com/xnjOtLam.jpg)

This time we will use the RAK19001 motherboard, but, [here](https://store.rakwireless.com/collections/wisblock-base) you can select another board. If you have any doubt about the Hardware configuration, you can visit the WisBlock official documentation [here](https://docs.rakwireless.com/Product-Categories/WisBlock/Quickstart/#hardware-setup). The final result that you will get is shown in the next figure:

![connection](https://i.imgur.com/Lm5qK2nm.jpg)

After that you can put this project in an enclossure and you will get a final product ready to install, like the shown in the next Figure:

![Finalproduct](https://i.imgur.com/xsoS2D5m.png)

## Firmware development 

## Some details

When working with LoRaWAN, you need to choose a LNS (either TTN, Chirpstack, etc), it will provide you credentials whether you are using OTAA or ABP connection mode, modify your code with your credentials to successfully connect to the network.

```
//OTAA keys !!!! KEYS ARE MSB !!!!
uint8_t nodeDeviceEUI[8] = {0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00};
uint8_t nodeAppEUI[8] = {0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00};
uint8_t nodeAppKey[16] = {0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00, 0x00};
// ABP keys
uint32_t nodeDevAddr = 0x260116F8;
uint8_t nodeNwsKey[16] = {0x7E, 0xAC, 0xE2, 0x55, 0xB8, 0xA5, 0xE2, 0x69, 0x91, 0x51, 0x96, 0x06, 0x47, 0x56, 0x9D, 0x23};
uint8_t nodeAppsKey[16] = {0xFB, 0xAC, 0xB6, 0x47, 0xF3, 0x58, 0x45, 0xC7, 0x50, 0x7D, 0xBF, 0x16, 0x8B, 0xA8, 0xC1, 0x7C};
```

The LoRaWAN code works with events, that means you don't need to add anything in the loop function for the code to work correctly, just modify the sending time and buffer size parameters that you need to transmit in the `lorawan_code.h`.

```
/ Private definition
#define LORAWAN_APP_DATA_BUFF_SIZE 64 /**< buffer size of the data to be transmitted. */
#define LORAWAN_APP_INTERVAL 60000 /**< Defines for user timer, the application data transmission interval. 20s, value in [ms]. */
```
Finally, if you are sending data using the Notecard, you need to first send the data to the Notehub, the blues platform to work as a connection between our end device and the IoT platform. For that, you need to edit the `blues_conf.h` file and define your `PRODUCT_UID` according to your credential in your Notehub account.

```
#define PRODUCT_UID "com.company.username:projectname"
```

### Modbus Server

To test this project you will need modbus devices to use as servers (slaves), this time we will emulate them using the [Pymodbus Library](https://pypi.org/project/pymodbus/) and creating a synchronous server of which you can consult more information about it [here](https://pymodbus.readthedocs.io/en/v1.5.2.post0/source/example/synchronous_server.html), and it is the file `server.py`.

Using the Pymodbus library, we emulate a server with 100 coils, 100 discrete inputs, 100 holding registers, and 100 input registers. The functions to access any of them are ready in the firmware, but to show how it works just read the value of a coil, a holding register and an input register, initialized to 0, 66 and 33 respectively. Reading this data, the final result in Ubidots would look like Figure 6.

### LoRaWAN communication

The process to communicate end devices via LoRaWAN networks can be done via a public network like [Helium](https://www.helium.com/) or set up your own network using a gateway for LoRaWAN. In this case, we will configure the second option. For this process you will need:

- [A gateways for LoRaWAN](https://store.rakwireless.com/collections/wisgate-edge)
- [TTN account](https://console.cloud.thethings.network/)

The gateway needs to be configured to work in base station mode, then it will be added to TTN creating a security token, finally creating the end devices with the credentials to be replaced in code as explained. before. This process is simple and can be done in a few minutes, check our [official documentation](https://docs.rakwireless.com/Product-Categories/WisGate/RAK7268-V2/Supported-LoRa-Network-Servers/#wisgateos-2-basics-station-to-ttnv3) for the step by step process.

### Blues Communication

This process is even simpler than setting up the LoRaWAN network, just create an account on the [Notehub page](https://notehub.io/sign-in?flow=473ef4b7-c19d-4440-a5d4-c2d1bb9d25b6) and create a new project. This project will be created with a unique identifier that needs to be added to the code, as mentioned above. You will need to add a device and add your Notecard that you are working with. You can review the Blues documentation to see the [process step by step](https://docs.rakwireless.com/Product-Categories/WisGate/RAK7268-V2/Supported-LoRa-Network-Servers/#wisgateos-2-basics-station-to-ttnv3).

### Ubidots Connection

Finally, the connection to Ubidots will be made by integrating the two platforms, TTN and Notehub, with Ubidots. In this part, you need to keep in mind that you are sending data with different payloads, so Ubidtos needs to be able to recognize this format and translate it to display the data in dashboards.

You can create two devices in Ubidots or try to configure one device to receive data from different platforms. In either case, you must translate the payload so that the IoT platform can read it. To use this you will need to have a decoder function, the decoder functions examples are the `.js` files in the repo, just copy and paste on the DataCake platform.

Considering the above decoders, the process to connect Notehub and TTN with Ubidots is not complicated. You can consult the complete [Blues](https://help.ubidots.com/en/articles/4990386-learn-how-to-connect-blues-wireless-notecard-powered-app-to-ubidots) and [TTN](https://help.ubidots.com/en/articles/5096476-plugins-connect-the-things-stack-to-ubidots) tutorial on Ubidots official website.

If you need more information you can visit the next sites:


[RAKwireless official Documentation Site](https://docs.rakwireless.com/Introduction/)

[Blues Wireless site](https://dev.blues.io/)
